[DOCS-13133] Expand AWS integration troubleshooting with high-frequency support topics (#35349)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/integrations/guide/aws-integration-troubleshooting.md

Within Datadog, when you select `min`, `max`, or `avg`, you are controlling how multiple timeseries are combined. For example, requesting `system.cpu.idle` without any filter returns one series for each host that reports that metric, and those series need to be combined to be graphed. If instead you request `system.cpu.idle` from a single host, no aggregation is necessary and switching between average and max yields the same result.

See [Space aggregation][21] in the metric documentation for more information.

#### 3. Per-dimension metrics

> Some AWS CloudWatch metrics are emitted once per dimension combination, which can produce values that appear inflated when aggregated in Datadog. For example, the Classic ELB metric `aws.elb.healthy_host_count` is reported separately for each Availability Zone. When cross-zone load balancing is enabled, summing this metric across all Availability Zones produces a total that is higher than the actual number of healthy hosts. See [Wrong count of aws.elb.healthy_host_count](#wrong-count-of-awselbhealthy_host_count) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some AWS CloudWatch metrics are emitted once per dimension combination, which can produce values that appear inflated when aggregated in Datadog. For example, the Classic ELB metric `aws.elb.healthy_host_count` is reported separately for each availability zone. When cross-zone load balancing is enabled, summing this metric across all availability zones produces a total that is higher than the actual number of healthy hosts. See [Wrong count of aws.elb.healthy_host_count](#wrong-count-of-awselbhealthy_host_count) for details.
```

Author: Applied — lowercased "Availability Zone(s)" per Datadog Vale (`words.yml` maps it to lowercase) in 7fd2c4b.

> To avoid inflated aggregation, use the `_deduped` metric variants when available, or scope your query to a specific dimension value such as a single Availability Zone. See the [ELB integration page][27] for a full list of load balancer types that support `_deduped` variants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid inflated aggregation, use the `_deduped` metric variants when available, or scope your query to a specific dimension value such as a single availability zone. See the [ELB integration page][27] for a full list of load balancer types that support `_deduped` variants.
```

Author: Applied — lowercased "Availability Zone" in 7fd2c4b.

When using the AWS integration, Datadog pulls in your metrics through the CloudWatch API. You may see a delay in metrics from AWS due to some constraints that exist for their API.

The CloudWatch API only offers a metric-by-metric crawl to pull data. CloudWatch APIs have a rate limit that varies based on the combination of authentication credentials, region, and service. Metrics are made available by AWS dependent on the account level. For example, if you are paying for "detailed metrics" within AWS, they are available more frequently. This level of service for detailed metrics also applies to granularity, with some metrics being available per minute and others per five minutes.

Install the Datadog Agent on the host to avoid metric delay. See the [Datadog Agent documentation][3] to get started. Datadog has the ability to prioritize certain metrics within an account to pull them in faster, depending on the circumstances. Contact [Datadog support][4] for additional information.

### Expected metric delays

The delay between when a metric is generated in AWS and when it appears in Datadog depends on the collection method:

| Collection method | Typical delay | Notes |
|---|---|---|

> | API polling (default) | ~10 minutes | CloudWatch API rate limits and account size can increase delay. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| API polling (default) | Approximately 10 minutes | CloudWatch API rate limits and account size can increase delay. |
```

Author: Applied — replaced `~10 minutes` with "Approximately 10 minutes" in 7fd2c4b.

> | [CloudWatch Metric Streams][23] | 2-3 minutes | Requires separate setup with Amazon Data Firehose. |

Reviewer: en dash -> hyphen.

```suggestion
| [CloudWatch Metric Streams][23] | 2–3 minutes | Requires separate setup with Amazon Data Firehose. |
```

Author: Used "2 to 3 minutes" instead of an en dash in 7fd2c4b — Datadog Vale (`endash.yml`) explicitly forbids en dashes, so spelling out the range was the cleanest fix.

| [Datadog Agent][3] | Real-time | Collects host-level metrics directly, without CloudWatch. |

In addition to collection method delays, some AWS services introduce their own latency on the CloudWatch side:

- **S3 Storage Lens** metrics are published daily, not continuously.
- **AWS billing metrics** are delayed by several hours and update infrequently.

> - **Detailed monitoring** for EC2 provides one-minute metrics (instead of the default five-minute granularity) but requires enablement per-instance in AWS.

Reviewer: "Per-instance" is used adverbially here (modifying "requires enablement"), not as a compound modifier before a noun. It should be two words.

```suggestion
- **Detailed monitoring** for EC2 provides one-minute metrics (instead of the default five-minute granularity) but requires enablement per instance in AWS.
```

Author: Applied — changed "per-instance" to "per instance" in 7fd2c4b.

1. **Verify IAM permissions.** Confirm that the `DatadogAWSIntegrationRole` includes the required permissions for the AWS service. Some services require service-specific permissions beyond the core integration policy. See the individual [AWS integration pages][15] for service-specific permission requirements.
2. **Verify the AWS region is enabled.** In the [AWS integration page][16], confirm that the region where your resources are deployed is selected under the **General** tab. Metrics are only collected from enabled regions.
3. **Verify the service is emitting metrics to CloudWatch.** Open the CloudWatch console in AWS and confirm that the expected metrics exist. CloudWatch's API returns only metrics with datapoints, so if a resource is idle or has no attached components (for example, an ELB with no attached instances), CloudWatch may not report metrics for it.
4. **Check whether the service requires additional enablement.** Some AWS services do not emit metrics to CloudWatch by default and require extra configuration in the AWS console. See [Which AWS services require additional setup beyond the core integration?][26] for a full list.

> 5. **Wait for the polling interval.** Allow at least one collection cycle before investigating further. See [Expected metric delays](#expected-metric-delays) above for timing by collection method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **Wait for the polling interval.** Allow at least one collection cycle before investigating further. See [Expected metric delays](#expected-metric-delays) for timing by collection method.
```

Author: Applied — dropped "above" in 7fd2c4b.

> 6. **Check for Service Control Policies (SCPs).** If your account is part of an AWS Organization, SCPs applied at the organization or OU level can override IAM permissions and block API calls. Verify that no SCP denies the required permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. **Check for Service Control Policies (SCPs).** If your account is part of an AWS Organization, SCPs applied at the organization or organizational unit (OU) level can override IAM permissions and block API calls. Verify that no SCP denies the required permissions.
```

Author: Applied — expanded "OU" to "organizational unit (OU)" in 7fd2c4b.

### Wrong count of aws.elb.healthy_host_count

> When the cross-zone load balancing option is enabled on an ELB, all the instances attached to this ELB are considered part of all availability zones (on CloudWatch's side). For example, if you have two instances in `1a` and three instances in `ab`, the metric displays five instances per availability zone.

Reviewer: Pre-existing typo, but flagging since the new "Per-dimension metrics" section links directly to this one and you're already in the file: "`ab`" is almost certainly "`1b`".

```suggestion
When the cross-zone load balancing option is enabled on an ELB, all the instances attached to this ELB are considered part of all availability zones (on CloudWatch's side). For example, if you have two instances in `1a` and three instances in `1b`, the metric displays five instances per availability zone.
```

Author: Applied — corrected typo `ab` → `1b` in 7fd2c4b.

As this can be counter intuitive, the metrics **aws.elb.healthy_host_count_deduped** and **aws.elb.un_healthy_host_count_deduped** display the count of healthy and unhealthy instances per availability zone, regardless of if this cross-zone load balancing option is enabled or not.

## Regions

### Region behavior

Datadog collects metrics only from the AWS regions you select in the [AWS integration page][16]. If you do not see data for a specific service, confirm the region where that resource is deployed is enabled.

#### Considerations

- **Global services**: Some AWS services (such as IAM, CloudFront, and Route 53) are global and not tied to a specific region. Metrics for these services typically appear under `us-east-1` regardless of the region configuration in Datadog.
- **Regional services**: Most AWS services are regional. Datadog only collects metrics for regions explicitly enabled in the integration tile.
- **Opt-in regions**: AWS opt-in regions (such as `af-south-1`, `ap-east-1`, and `me-south-1`) must be enabled in both your [AWS account settings][22] and the Datadog integration tile. If the region is not enabled on the AWS side, Datadog cannot collect data from it.

> - **New regions**: Recently launched AWS regions may be crawled automatically but might not yet appear in the Datadog integration UI or Terraform provider. Check the [AWS integration page][16] for the latest list of supported regions.

Reviewer: Two hedges ("may", "might") plus "yet" (a temporal word the style guide flags as non-evergreen). Tighten:

```suggestion
- **New regions**: Recently launched AWS regions are crawled but may not yet appear in the Datadog integration UI or Terraform provider. Check the [AWS integration page][16] for the latest list of supported regions.
```

Author: Used "may not appear immediately" instead of the literal suggestion in 7fd2c4b — the suggestion still contained "yet," which your comment flagged as a temporal word to avoid.

## Tags

### Tag collection and propagation delays

> AWS tags are collected as part of the integration's crawl cycle and may take additional time to appear in Datadog after you apply them in AWS. Expect tag propagation to take anywhere from 15 minutes to several hours, depending on the AWS service and the volume of resources in your account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AWS tags are collected as part of the integration's crawl cycle. Expect tag propagation to take 15 minutes to several hours after you apply tags in AWS, depending on the AWS service and the volume of resources in your account.
```

Author: Applied — tightened the tag-propagation paragraph in 7fd2c4b.
